# Obtaining CPI Stack

In this project, our objective is to determine the CPI (Cycles Per Instruction) stack by leveraging Hardware Performance Counters in conjunction with Linear Regression.

# SPEC CPU 2017

In this project, we employed SPEC CPU 2017 as the benchmark suite for our performance evaluation. SPEC CPU 2017 is a comprehensive collection of benchmarks developed by the Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation (SPEC), designed to rigorously assess and measure various aspects of a computer system's performance, with a particular focus on CPU (Central Processing Unit) performance. By utilizing this benchmark suite, we were able to conduct a thorough evaluation of the system's capabilities, covering areas such as integer and floating-point computation, memory access, and other critical aspects.

# Perf
In our project, we utilized 'perf' to access hardware counters and gather performance-related data for analysis.

perf is a Linux command-line tool that provides performance monitoring and profiling capabilities, allowing users to analyze system and application performance by collecting and displaying a wide range of performance-related data. It can be used to investigate CPU, memory, and other resource usage for optimizing software and diagnosing performance issues.

### Installation
To install perf use following command:

apt-get install linux-tools-common linux-tools-generic linux-tools-`uname -r`

#### How to use Perf

*Monitoring CPU Events*:
   - To monitor CPU events, use the perf stat command followed by the name of the program you want to profile:
     ```
     perf stat ./myprogram
	  ```

*Profiling Events*:
   - Use perf record to profile specific events. For example, to profile cache misses:
     ```
     perf record -e cache-misses ./myprogram
     ```

### Viewing Results

After running perf, you can view the results using the perf report command:
```
perf report
```


# Generate Data Point
To generate data point for regression model use following command:
```
sudo perf stat -o perf_output_XXX_refrate.txt -e cpu-cycles,instructions,branch-misses,cache-misses,L1-dcache-load-misses,L1-icache-load-misses,LLC-load-misses,LLC-store-misses,branch-load-misses,dTLB-load-misses,dTLB-store-misses,iTLB-load-misses,l2_rqsts.code_rd_miss,l2_rqsts.demand_data_rd_miss,l2_rqsts.all_demand_miss -I 300 ./command.sh
```



This command runs the 'perf' tool with elevated privileges to monitor and collect a comprehensive set of hardware performance statistics. These statistics include events such as CPU cycles, cache misses, branch misses, and various cache and TLB (Translation Lookaside Buffer) misses. The '-o' flag is used to specify that the collected performance data should be saved to a file named 'perf_output_XXX_refrate.txt'. With the '-I' flag, a sampling interval of 300 milliseconds is set, meaning that 'perf' will sample and record performance data at this interval. 

# Command.sh
Content of command.sh
```
. /home/sahillathiya/Desktop/Projects/SPEC2017/shrc
runcpu --config=walter-try1.cfg --size=refrate 511 --iteration=3
```


# Linear Regression

Before applying linear regression to the data generated by 'perf,' the initial step is to convert the data from its text file format into a more suitable format, specifically a CSV file.

To facilitate this conversion, we utilized the 'Text to CSV.ipynb' file.

For conducting linear regression, we employed the file 'Linear Regression on Perf Dataset using Library.ipynb.'
"# CPI_Stack" 
